Assignment 7 - Discussion

For the purpose of this assignment I created a generalized linear model (GLM) to test if a model predicting alpha diversity based on age and/or sample type is sufficient, and compared it to a linear model.My response variable is alpha diversity and it is a continuous variable. Due to this, I used family=Gamma(link="log") as my link funciton and overdispersion is not a concern.

I then compared the GLM to a LM using the log of alpha diversity. I used diagnostic plots to observe the results, and they were quite similar between the two models, with slightly different p values, but the significance remained the same.
Similar to the LM, the GLM model showed there is no clear pattern between alpha diversity and age (p-value = 0.217). There are no non-linear relationships between diversity and age and there is a normal distribution within the data, as visualied with the residuals vs fitted and normal q-q plots. Again, there does heteroscedasticity does not seem to appear because the residuals are randomnly spread. An interesting thing to note would be more outliers within the residuals vs leverage plot that lie outside of the Cook's distance line. Again, these outliers should be removed to investigate how they may influence the data but I predict they may not have a large influence.

Secondly, the GLM shows there is a clear pattern between alpha diversity and sample type collected (p-value = 0.0245), which was previously seem with the LM. The diagnostic plots for the GLM are quite similar to the LM. Again, since the predictor variable is categorical, the residuals are diverged onto opposite ends of the plot with a horizontal line indicating there are no non-linear relationships in the data. The normal Q-Q plot indicates normal distribution and the scale - location plot shows equal variance or no heteroscedasticity present. Lastly, there are quite a few outliers in the residual vs leverage plot that should be removed but I would predict they would not influence the data greatly.
