#Assignment 5: linear models

To test my hypotheses: "Can you predict alpha diversity based on age?" and "Can you predict alpha diversity based on sample type?" I used linear regression models and diagnostic plots to answer these questions.  
Results from the first hypothesis indicate a p-value of 0.1372, meaning there is no clear pattern between alpha diversity and age. The linear model seems sufficient. The residual vs fitted plot indicates there are no non-linear relationships between diversity and age and the normal Q-Q plot indicates the residuals are normally distributed because they follow a straight line. The scale-location plot indicates there is no heteroscedasticity, meaning there is equal variance because the residuals appear to be randomnly spread.Lastly, the residuals vs leverage plot indicate ~5 outliers in the data because they pass Cook's distance and are influential to the regression results. The best approach for this would be to remove them and investigate how they affect the analysis - I was not sure how to remove the outliers past Cook's distance line because they were not labelled.

Results from the second hypothesis indicate a significant p-value of 0.01502 (i.e. >= 0.05) meaning there is a distinguishable pattern between between alpha diversity and samples which was expected. The summary of the linear regression model shows an intercept between diversity and sample type -saliva, but not sample type -nasal which I am uncertain about. The linear model for this hypothesis also seems sufficient. Since the predictor variable is categorical, the residuals are not spread equally but rather in 2 categories. The residual vs fitted plot indicates there are no non-linear relationships between alpha diversity and sample type and the normal Q-Q plot indicates normal distribution, or a linear relationship, because the residuals follow a straight line. The scale-location plot shows relatively equal variance because the red line is linear with a slight decreased slope, but the residuals are again plotted in 2 categories. Lastly, the ~5 outliers  reamin in the residuals vs leverage plot that are potentially influential to the data and should be removed.
